Backorder Issue — ACCS-216 (PDP Troubleshooting) (#712)
commerce-docs/microsite-commerce-storefront: src/content/docs/dropins/product-details/troubleshooting.mdx

---
title: Product Details Troubleshooting
description: Troubleshoot common issues with product availability, backorder status, and product data display on the product details page.
sidebar:
  label: Troubleshooting
  order: 9
---

import { Aside, Steps } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';
import Options from '@components/Options.astro';
import Option from '@components/Option.astro';
import Link from '@components/Link.astro';
import TableWrapper from '@components/TableWrapper.astro';

> This guide helps you troubleshoot common issues with product availability, stock status, and product data synchronization on the product details page.

Reviewer: This topic?

<Options label="Issue" numbered={false}>

<Option>

### Backorder status toggle switches off unexpectedly

<Aside type="note" title="Note about this issue">

> This troubleshooting entry is based on a customer-reported support issue. The "backorder toggle" refers to a Commerce Admin interface element used to configure product backorder settings (accessible via **Catalog** > **Products** > **\[Product\]** > **Advanced Inventory**). While the Commerce Admin interface itself is not part of the storefront codebase, the data synchronization mechanism (SaaS Data Export) that syncs inventory changes from Commerce to Catalog Service is documented and verifiable.

Reviewer: Why does Product need to be in brackets?

</Aside>

> **Symptom:** Backorder toggle switches on when ERP notifies ACCS that a product is backordered, but then switches back to off after a period of time even though the ERP hasn't adjusted the quantity available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Symptom:** The backorder toggle switches on when an ERP notifies ACCS that a product is backordered, but then switches off after a period of time, although the ERP hasn't adjusted the quantity available.
```

**Impact:** Customers see products as deliverable when they're actually on backorder, leading to order fulfillment issues.

**Expected behavior:**

The backorder toggle is a **configuration setting** that defines how products behave when stock quantity is 0 (whether to allow customers to purchase out-of-stock items or not). The backorder setting should be a static configuration and is **not intended to change automatically** based on stock quantity changes. 

If you need the backorder toggle to change dynamically based on stock levels, you would need to implement a custom runtime action that:
- Subscribes to quantity adjustment events
- Calls Adobe Commerce APIs to update the backorder flag when quantity reaches 0

> - This custom implementation should be at the integration level (e.g., OPTP integration), not in core storefront code

Reviewer: Not a bullet. 

Remove e.g. and don't mention a specific customer.

For more information about configuring backorders, see the <Link href="https://experienceleague.adobe.com/en/docs/commerce-admin/inventory/configuration/backorders#configure-backorders-for-a-product" text="Commerce Admin backorder configuration documentation" />.

**Verify the issue:**

<Steps>

1. **Check the browser console for product data updates:**
   ```javascript
   // Listen to product data events
   import { events } from '@dropins/tools/event-bus.js';
   
   events.on('pdp/data', (payload) => {
     if (payload) {
       console.log('Product data:', payload);
       console.log('In stock:', payload.inStock);
       console.log('Add to cart allowed:', payload.addToCartAllowed);
       console.log('SKU:', payload.sku);
     }
   });
   ```

> 2. **Verify the API response from Catalog Service:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Verify the API response from Catalog Service:**
```

Reviewer: All the procedures in this topic are incrementing the step numbers

>    - Use the <Link href="/playgrounds/commerce-services/" text="Commerce APIs Playground" /> to query product data

Reviewer: Oh, no. Don't send them to the playground.

>    - Check the `inStock` and `addToCartAllowed` fields in the GraphQL response

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Check the `ProductView.inStock` and `ProductView.addToCartAllowed` fields in the GraphQL response
```

   - Compare the API response with what's displayed on the PDP

3. **Monitor product data changes:**
   - Check if product data is being refreshed automatically
   - Verify if any event handlers are updating product availability
   - Look for conflicting data sources updating the product

</Steps>

**What to check:**

- **Expected behavior**: Verify that the backorder toggle is set as a static configuration and not being changed automatically based on stock quantity. The backorder setting should remain consistent regardless of stock level changes.

> - **Custom runtime actions**: Check if any custom runtime actions or integrations are subscribed to quantity adjustment events and automatically updating the backorder flag. If dynamic backorder behavior is needed, it should be implemented at the integration level (e.g., OPTP integration), not in core storefront code.

Reviewer: Again, no Latin abbreviations, no specific customers

     console.log('Add to cart allowed:', productData.addToCartAllowed);
   }
   ```

   <Aside type="caution" title="Function import path may vary">
   The exact import path for Product Details functions may differ depending on your package version and how the package exports its API functions. Other drop-ins in the codebase use `/api.js` instead of `/functions.js` (for example, `@dropins/storefront-cart/api.js`, `@dropins/storefront-checkout/api.js`). 
   
   **If the import fails**, try these alternatives:
   - `@dropins/storefront-pdp/api.js` (if functions are exported from the main API file)
   - `@dropins/storefront-pdp` (if functions are exported from the package root)
   
   Verify the correct import path by checking:
   
   <Steps>
   1. Your installed package version in `package.json`
   2. The package's export structure in `node_modules/@dropins/storefront-pdp/`
   3. The [Product Details Functions documentation](/dropins/product-details/functions/) for your specific version
   </Steps>
   
   The function `getProductData` exists and is documented, but the exact import path cannot be verified without inspecting the installed package structure.
   </Aside>

> 2. **Clear browser cache** and reload the page

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Clear browser cache** and reload the page.
```

3. **Verify Catalog Service sync:** Ensure your Commerce backend has synced inventory changes to Catalog Service:

>    - Check the [Data Management Dashboard](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/en/docs/commerce-admin/systems/data-transfer/data-dashboard) in Commerce Admin to verify sync status

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Check the [Data Management Dashboard](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/en/docs/commerce-admin/systems/data-transfer/data-dashboard) in Commerce Admin to verify sync status.
```

>    - If sync is delayed or failed, manually trigger synchronization using `saas:resync` commands (see [FAQ troubleshooting](/troubleshooting/faq/#what-should-i-do-if-my-catalog-servicelive-search-data-is-missing-or-corrupted))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - If sync is delayed or failed, manually trigger synchronization using `saas:resync` commands (see [FAQ troubleshooting](/troubleshooting/faq/#what-should-i-do-if-my-catalog-servicelive-search-data-is-missing-or-corrupted)).
```

> 4. **Check for multiple data sources:** Verify if product data is being fetched from multiple APIs that might conflict

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. **Check for multiple data sources:** Verify if product data is being fetched from multiple APIs that might conflict.
```

</Steps>

**Verify:** Use the <Link href="/playgrounds/commerce-services/" text="Commerce APIs Playground" /> to query the product directly and compare with what's displayed.

</Option>

<Option>

### Product data not displaying

**Symptom:** Product details page shows incomplete or missing product information.

**Fix:** Check initialization and data fetching:

<Steps>

1. **Verify initializer is imported:**
   ```javascript
   // Ensure the PDP initializer is imported
   import '../../scripts/initializers/pdp.js';
   ```

> 2. **Check product SKU:** Verify the SKU is correct and exists in your Commerce backend

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Check the product SKU:** Verify the SKU is correct and exists in your Commerce backend.
```

> 3. **Verify API connectivity:** Test the GraphQL endpoint connection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. **Verify API connectivity:** Test the GraphQL endpoint connection.
```

> 4. **Check browser console:** Look for errors in the browser console that might indicate API failures

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. **Check browser console:** Look for errors in the browser console that might indicate API failures.
```

</Steps>

**Verify:** Use browser DevTools Network tab to check if GraphQL requests are succeeding and returning data.

</Option>

<Option>

### Stock status inconsistent across pages

> **Symptom:** Product shows different availability on PDP vs. cart vs. product list pages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Symptom:** Product shows different availability on PDP, cart, and product list pages.
```

**Fix:** Verify data consistency across drop-ins:

<Steps>

> 1. **Check data source:** Ensure all drop-ins are using the same data source (Catalog Service vs. Core GraphQL)

Reviewer: Add periods to all steps

2. **Verify event synchronization:** Check if `pdp/data` events are being listened to by other components

3. **Review caching:** Different components might be caching product data differently

</Steps>

**Verify:** Query the same product SKU from different pages and compare the `inStock` and `addToCartAllowed` values in the API responses.

</Option>

</Options>

## Understanding product availability data flow

Product availability on the PDP is determined by data from your Commerce backend:

<Steps>

> 1. **ERP/Inventory System** → Updates product inventory and backorder status

Reviewer: I'm not fond of these arrow. You're using colons throughout most of this topic. Correct the numbering and add periods.

> 2. **Adobe Commerce Backend** → Receives inventory updates via API or direct integration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Adobe Commerce Backend** → Receives inventory updates from an API or direct integration
```

3. **SaaS Data Export** → Synchronizes data between Adobe Commerce and Catalog Service using the [SaaS Data Export](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/en/docs/commerce/saas-data-export/overview) mechanism
4. **Catalog Service** → Stores synchronized product data including `inStock` and `addToCartAllowed` fields in a SaaS data space

> 5. **Storefront API** → Fetches product data via GraphQL queries from Catalog Service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. **Storefront API** → Fetches product data using Catalog Service GraphQL queries.
```

6. **PDP Drop-in** → Displays availability based on API response

</Steps>

The PDP drop-in displays product availability based on the `inStock` and `addToCartAllowed` fields returned by the Catalog Service GraphQL API. The `inStock` field indicates whether the product is currently in stock (`true`), out of stock (`false`), or availability is unknown (`null`). If these values are incorrect, the issue is typically in the data synchronization between your inventory system and Catalog Service.

### Monitoring data synchronization

You can monitor the data synchronization process using:

> - **Data Management Dashboard**: Accessible in Commerce Admin at **System** > **Data Transfer** > **Data Dashboard** (see <Link href="https://experienceleague.adobe.com/en/docs/commerce-admin/systems/data-transfer/data-dashboard" text="Data Management Dashboard documentation" />). This dashboard shows sync progress for each service including Catalog Service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Data Management Dashboard**: Accessible in Commerce Admin at **System** > **Data Transfer** > **Data Dashboard** (see <Link href="https://experienceleague.adobe.com/en/docs/commerce-admin/systems/data-transfer/data-dashboard" text="Data Management Dashboard documentation" />). This dashboard shows sync progress for each service, including Catalog Service.
```

- **Manual sync commands**: If data is missing or corrupted, you can manually trigger synchronization using `saas:resync` commands. See the [FAQ troubleshooting guide](/troubleshooting/faq/#what-should-i-do-if-my-catalog-servicelive-search-data-is-missing-or-corrupted) for specific commands.

<Aside type="note" title="ERP integration details">

> While the data synchronization mechanism between Commerce and Catalog Service is documented (SaaS Data Export), the specific implementation details of how ERP systems integrate with Adobe Commerce to send inventory updates are backend-specific and vary by customer implementation. The ERP → Commerce integration is typically handled through:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While the data synchronization mechanism between Commerce and Catalog Service is documented (SaaS Data Export), the specific implementation details of how ERP systems integrate with Adobe Commerce to send inventory updates are backend-specific and vary by customer implementation. The ERP to Commerce integration is typically handled through:
```

- Adobe Commerce REST/GraphQL APIs
- Custom integrations or extensions
- Third-party connectors

For ERP integration troubleshooting, consult your ERP vendor documentation or Adobe Commerce support.
</Aside>

## Verifying product data

To verify what product data the storefront is receiving:

**Method 1: Browser console**

```javascript
// Listen to product data events
import { events } from '@dropins/tools/event-bus.js';

events.on('pdp/data', (payload) => {
  if (payload) {
    console.log('Product availability:', {
      sku: payload.sku,
      inStock: payload.inStock,
      addToCartAllowed: payload.addToCartAllowed
    });
  }
});
```

> **Method 2: GraphQL Playground**

Reviewer: Again, this is not the proper destination for queries.

Use the <Link href="/playgrounds/commerce-services/" text="Commerce APIs Playground" /> to query product data directly:

```graphql
query {
  products(skus: ["YOUR-SKU"]) {
    sku
    inStock
    addToCartAllowed
  }
}
```

**Method 3: Network tab**

<Aside type="note" title="Network tab debugging">
Using browser DevTools Network tab to inspect GraphQL requests is a standard web development debugging technique. This method is referenced in other troubleshooting guides (see [CORS troubleshooting](/setup/configuration/cors-troubleshooting/) and [Price Book setup](/setup/configuration/price-book-setup/)) for inspecting network requests, but the specific steps below are general debugging practices rather than storefront-specific documentation.
</Aside>

<Steps>

> 1. Open browser DevTools → Network tab

Reviewer: Is this Chrome-centric?
